Tutorial.

- Describe the heirachy of packages, functions and libraries.
- Give the path to 2 libraries on your computer.
- Give 5 packges that are already installed on your machine.
- Choose and install a package from CRAN
- Load a package into your R environment, and call it.
- Write your own function to take two numbers, multiply them, and print the result within the function.
- Modify your function to accept arguments by name.
- Call your function using partial matching.



background things -- dont get confused with Roxy data paths.
libraries.
installing to your own user path.
libraries are stored in your own library first.
Computer at home - shared computer. Sharing computers in a lab at varsity.
if you change a user, things can happen.



install a package. demo what functions come along with it.
help(package=....)


dependancies are packages that this package uses.


CRAN repo. lots of them at universities around the world. 
thats why the list is long - you can choose any, they are all the same. only speed might change.


why download from cran vs. local.
old versions from CRAN are available.
looking for previous versions. cran website.
try find externally linked previous versions of packages (github)



include script.


on functions... instead of RMSE, calculate BMI.



give a def. of encapsulation.



Syntax slide - include "mean.default" in R. to show that the code is there in the background



in explination, explain that in STATA, there are things called functions, but named something else...


get rid of image, change to using previous example - sum(x)...


"in the plotting lectures, the concept of an environment will become crucial"


return lists for plotting. - simple regression after slide on environments.


environments - use dataframe to df. instead of list to dataframe


change mean on "so many ways to call functions" to seq.
length.out


TODO, seq. value, value, by=1.0
or can try rnorm.


"give the path to the libraries on your computer"




Packages come from many different sources, so there is no one standard convention for naming schemas (in arguments for example).
Students need to understand the difference between this and (for example) Matlab - where one body decides conventions.


